# Network Traffic Analyzer

This project consists of two programs: one written in C++, and the other in Python. These programs are designed for processing network traffic and analyzing data transmission statistics.

## Program #1 (C++)

### Description
This C++ program serves as a simple network traffic analyzer. It uses the libpcap library to capture and analyze packets from either a network interface or a pcap file. The analyzer extracts information about TCP and UDP packets, such as source and destination IP addresses, source and destination ports, packet count, and total bytes. The results are written to a CSV file.

### Features
- Supports both live capture from a network interface and offline analysis of pcap files.
- Filters packets based on IP and either TCP or UDP protocols.
- Aggregates packet data into threads based on source and destination IP addresses and ports.
- Outputs analysis results to a CSV file, providing insights into network traffic patterns.

### Dependencies
- libpcap

### Compilation and Run
Place the .pcap file to the "files" folder
`bash
cd cpp_program
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
./traffic_analyzer <source> <output_file.csv> <count_of_packets>(optional for interface)

### Examples
./traffic_analyzer wlp1s0 ../files/wlp1s0_traffic.csv 1000
./traffic_analyzer ../files/ftp.pcap ../files/tcpudp_traffic.csv 

## Program #2 (Python)

### Description
Python program performs post-processing of statistical data generated by the C++ program. It analyzes a CSV file, calculates the number of received and transmitted bytes and packets for each IP address, and writes the result to another CSV file.

### Dependencies
- pandas
- argparse

### Compilation and Run
`bash
cd python_program
python3 traffic_postprocessor.py <input_file.csv> <output_file.csv>

### Examples
python3 traffic_postprocessor.py ../cpp_program/files/wlp1s0_traffic.csv postproc_wlp1s0_traffic.csv
python3 traffic_postprocessor.py ../cpp_program/files/tcpudp_traffic.csv postproc_tcpudp_traffic.csv

#### Poject Structure
- cpp_program/: files (pcap and csv), external (libpcap), src (sources files)
- python_program/: traffic_postprocessor.py
